Okay, so like any other attribute,
you can specify classes with a JavaScript,
you can specify classes on
an element using attributes.
We could add a flipped class to the card,
like this, flipped is.
So the class is flipped if the value of
flipped is true, otherwise it's false,
we've got a syntax error somewhere,
okay, there we go.
So, now if I click on this
this button inside this card,
its gonna activate the Svelte handler and
this class is going to change.
All the CSS is down here,
if you wanna see how this is working,
we're just using CSS transforms.
We can make this a little bit nicer.
Instead of having this ternary operator
inside our attribute,
we can use this shorthand,
class:flipped=flipped.
Right, this means add the flip class
when flipped is a truthy value and
remove the flip class when
flipped is a falsy value.
And it's particularly convenient when you
have multiple styles that are dynamic, or
multiple classes that are dynamic rather.
And as in other contexts,
we have a shorthand version of this,
class:flipped=flipped is duplicative.
We don't need to repeat the word flipped,
just get rid of that and
everything continues to work.
And just like with classes,
you can put all of your styles
in an inline style attribute.
So maybe we don't wanna use a class for
this, maybe we wanna use a style and
we could write out style=transform and
if it's flipped, we're gonna have.
Rotate y zero, Otherwise it's
gonna be the empty string and
maybe we wanna have some other styles
in here, we'll specify some colors.
Specify three colors,
make it look a little bit different.
Right, and you can see from the difficulty
that I'm having keeping all this
on the screen that, this is starting
to get a little bit out of hand and
it would be nicer if we had
a better way of doing this.
Starts to look a little bit crazy.
We can tidy things up using the style
directive which lets us control
one style at a time.
So instead of having all of
this text here like that,
we can have a style transform which is
equal to the value of that ternary.
We can have a style bg-1,
which is equal to pale goldenrod.
I'm having some difficulty with
the editor here, bear with me.
So you can see how when you have multiple
styles, using the style directive is
a little bit nicer than putting
everything in one single style string.
Now often you will need to influence
the styles inside a child component,
plus wanna make these boxes here red,
green and blue.
One way that you can do this is with
the global CSS modifier, which is sort of
an escape hatch when you're writing
styles that are scoped to the component.
Inside our app.spelt,
we could have a style tag, and
we could target each of
these boxes individually.
So we could use global,
and then inside that,
we're gonna target the nth child one,
give that a background
color of red and we can do
the same thing for all the others.
For there's lots of reasons
why we shouldn't do that.
For one thing, as you can see,
it is a lot of code to write,
it's not fun code to write, for
another is kind of brittle, right?
At the moment this box component just has
a div element with a class of box, but
that's really just private
implementation detail.
It's not something that you can rely
on as a user of that component.
If we were to change the structure of
this and implement it in a different way,
then our selectors in
app.svelte could break.
So in general, I don't recommend
controlling styles that way.
Finally, it's a little bit rude to
control the contents of a component.
Components should be able to decide for
themselves,
which files can be
controlled from outside,
in the same way that they decide
which variables are exposed as props.
And so global is something that you
should reach for as a last resort.
Instead we can use CSS
custom properties for this.
This is a way that a component can say,
this is a value that is allowed
to be set from outside.
So inside box.spelt,
this background down here we're gonna
change that to be a CSS custom property.
We'll call it color, could be anything and
we'll give a default value of ddd,
which is what we had before.
And now any parent element that uses
this component can set a value of color.
So we could, for example, do it here,
style equals boxes purple, sorry,
color purple and
that will set a default value.
But another thing that we can do is
set the color property directly on
the component.
Right, so
we can now get rid of our inline styles.
All right, so you can think of this
as passing styles to the component,
the same way that you would
pass props to a component.
Implementation wise,
the way that this works is we wrapped
each of those components in
a div with display contents,
which means that it doesn't
affect the structure of the DOM.
But it allows us to place those
values in the DOM in such a way that
those CSS custom properties will
be inherited by child content.
These values can be dynamic, here,
we're using static strings, but
it could be some local variable as well.
And it's really a very flexible way to
control the styles inside components.
Any questions on classes and styles?
Mark.
>> When you add a class,
can you add multiple classes?
>> You absolutely can, you can add as
many classes as you like to a component.
So here we could do class foo=1,
class bar= 2 and
similarly with these values,
say we had, I don't know, border 3px,
solid var --border, right?
We could add border=yellow,
and things like that.
So, yeah,
you can add as many of these as you want.
>> Well, with the class directive though,
could you add more than one class?
>> Yeah.
>> Or do you need several classes?
>> So, you would have one
directive per class, but
you can have as many of those
directives as you like.
>> Okay, so you can't set multiple
classes with one directive.
>> No, sorry, if they're all
controlled by the same value, then no,
you would need separate directives for
each of those.
>> Question back to the bind
element instead of query selector.
What if I needed to bind more than
one element with something like query
selector all?
>> That's a great question,
you can bind to a whole bunch of elements.
Let me see if I can
demonstrate that real quick.
So.
Let divs = that, and then each,
I'm pretty sure this will work.
And then let's add an onMount so
that we can actually make this observable.
You're really putting me on the spot here,
whoever asked that question.
For cons div of divs div.text
content equals it works.
Okay, so yes,
you can bind to elements inside arrays and
that's how you would do the equivalent
of document query selector all
Did you hear my comment when I said
Tailwind users are crying right now
because they have lots and
lots of classes?
>> Yeah.
Well, Tailwind makes me cry.
>> Woo, I take over now.
Ended up using the ternary operator
instead of the class directive for
this very reason.
>> Yeah which is a totally
valid thing to do.